[Music]
before sunrise every day I watched
thousands of elephants mostly matriarch
send their families running across these
barren plains
clearly they were highly stressed these
floodplains are an international
boundary and just beyond that there are
many small farms close enough for me to
hear shouts and gunshots as farmers
drove the elephant's back across the
border to Botswana
[Music]
why were these elephants running back
and forth night after night were they
trying to raid crops why would they put
themselves through so much stress Mike
realizes then the bunt Lee and Max and
the vast network of elephant pathways is
seen from the air are giving him the
answers desperate to follow an ancient
migration path to distant food and water
these elephants are simply trying to get
beyond the farms using an age-old route
deeply ingrained in their memory which
is now blocked by expanding human
settlement
this barrier is every bit as threatening
to their survival as the fences
there are always consequences for
elephants in such an unnatural situation
their daily trek across and back is
taking its toll
females are stressed those with calves
have little milk
and it is completely exhausting for
young cars once the little ones stop
moving their fate is sealed
some are just too weak to go on
I very rarely intervene but on this
occasion the crisis had clearly been
caused by man
[Music]
if I could just get this little elephant
moving again get him to catch up with
his mom who stood nervously waiting for
him perhaps he could make it to the
shade and security of the Botswana side
incidents like this are a stark reminder
that the future of elephants is in our
hands
you